Hey everyone out there in the live stream, thank you so much for being here.
If you have comments, thoughts, please put them into the live chat and I'll try to make
it part of the show.
If you're watching later, thanks for being here.
Oh, hold on.
Hold on.
There's a super echo.
There we go.
Yeah.
Does anyone in the meeting have the YouTube stream open, or is there something wrong with
the stream?
>> One moment.
Maybe it's me.
>> Actually, that brings up a good question.
Do you want us to be muted when we're not talking?
>> No, it's okay.
This has never happened before with this thing.
It's like I hear my own -- >> Is it better now?
It's weird because I don't hear.
I don't hear it either.
Wow.
Okay.
I did see in Zencaster, you could turn on or off an option to hear your own voice.
I don't know if that's a thing that could do that.
All right, hold on.
Let me just hang tight.
The highly scientific turn it off and turn it on again.
Yes.
Hopefully, it's going to work.
- Yeah, I think, can you say something?
- Me?
Hi.
- Yeah.
Okay, good.
I was afraid it's from my setup, but I think it's okay.
- I think we're good.
- So now we're alone and we can, I don't know, are we live?
- I don't know.
Here's what's happened, everyone.
Sorry about that.
We're about to get there.
So on my other account,
a different account on my computer I'm logged into,
I had the YouTube video open
'cause I was copying the URL
and it started playing,
but not on my account.
I mean, there was no windows I had.
Anyway, all right.
(all laughing)
- In conclusion, it's a ghost.
- It was.
- The mystery is high. - It's really bizarre.
Okay. - Yeah.
(all laughing)
- Yeah.
Hello, everyone out there.
Thanks for being here in the live stream.
So, all right.
Let's now that I've dispelled the ghost,
thank you, we'll get started.
Leah, Jarek, Axel, welcome to Talk Python Me.
It's good to have you all here.
- Thanks for having us.
- Yeah, absolutely.
It's really fun to be talking about Airflow.
These are the types of tools that I think
they don't get that much awareness,
but they're the kind of thing that can be the real backbone
of a lot of teams, a lot of organizations and so on.
So I think that'll be super fun to dive into
and we'll all learn a lot.
And I suspect a lot of people listening will realize,
oh, here's a whole class of tools I didn't even realize
I should have considered to solve my problems.
But before we get down to that,
let's start with your stories.
Leah, you go first.
How'd you get into programming Python?
- Oh man, okay.
So let's see, Python was the first language that I learned.
I do have a bachelor's in computer science
and at the school I went to,
that is the language that Intro to CS is taught in.
- I am so jealous.
My Intro to CS class was in a scheme,
which is derivative of Lisp,
which didn't seem that practical.
And then I was told I had to learn Fortran.
It would be the most useful language I'd ever learn.
Neither of which turned out to be true.
I wish I learned Python.
- I mean, I got lucky.
Thanks Carleton College, Northfield, Minnesota
for giving me Python early.
And yeah, so I loved Python from the beginning.
You asked how I got into programming.
So I actually do have a parent in tech.
It is my dad and he tried to get me
into programming a lot earlier.
And like a true teen, I said, absolutely not
because it was suggested by my dad.
It really wasn't until I got to school
and I heard people say that Intro to CS was a fun elective.
I was only listening, that's totally in quotes
as I'm saying it, that I decided to take it.
And it turned out I really liked it.
And I decided to pivot from being a math major,
which wasn't going very well,
to being a computer science major.
- Wow, that's fantastic.
I was also a math major and I find the programming side,
a lot of the same skillset you have to use,
like the thinking through problem solving,
you have these constraints or axioms in math
and you like work from them.
But in math, you just come up with sort of like
the next idea that is the next problem
that is the next idea.
And in computers, you build stuff that people use.
And it's such a difference I find.
- It's puzzles is the programming.
And that was always the part of math that I liked.
I never liked the writing proofs
or the theoretical side of things.
I just wanted to solve puzzles with logic and rules.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Well, it sounds like you landed in the right spot.
That's awesome.
- I'm doing okay.
(both laughing)
- Jarek, how about you?
- So, yes, you talked about your first language.
So my first language in computer science
during the studies was, I think, Delphi or Pascal.
I can't even remember that.
But actually the first language I started programming
in the real work was, listen to that, COBOL.
So if you've, if, so I tend to joke
that when I'm retiring, I will be very well paid
for five hours a week programmer of COBOL
because nobody else will know it.
- You're gonna keep the trucks delivering
and the warehouse is open and just.
- Exactly.
- Yeah, beautiful.
You'll be on routine.
- Just five hours a week.
Yeah, that's super cool.
I think. But then Python is actually quite new in my portfolio, let's say, of languages.
I've learned it maybe six years ago. And with my experience and years of working in CS,
it's relatively late. But I loved it from the first glance. I used to work in like C,
C++, hundreds of other, a lot of other languages, but Python was just super easy from the start
and super nice too, and super, super friendly.
Like I was, after years of programming in Java, I was like so much, Oh, in one line
you can do what I would do in five pages.
Yeah.
And you can understand it.
Yes.
(laughs)
- Oh yeah, I fell in love immediately.
- Oh, fantastic.
- And it's my absolutely favorite language right now.
- Yeah, same here.
Kaxil.
- Yeah, for me, I did my bachelor's
in electrical engineering, so didn't do anything over there.
But when I came in the UK to do my master's,
we were taught our language and Java.
One fine day, we were ending the college
in just a month or two.
And there was a presentation from someone
in the university who was telling us
how to use data science in the industry and everything.
They said, you should know Python.
And we were like, oh, but we were not taught Python.
And we are just one or two months away
from doing our internships and everything,
and we don't know Python.
So that's when I started looking into Python.
I got an internship, and then I actually
started learning more of Python.
So this was 2016 I'm talking about.
And yeah, since then it has been a wild, wild ride.
I have written a lot of Java, a lot of R,
but Python seems to be very easy to write,
easy to understand, plus the community behind it
and the packages behind it are so vast
that you can use it for anything.
- Yeah, I saw a funny T-shirt once that said,
"I learned Python, it was a great weekend."
which I think is really funny, right?
(laughing)
Because on one hand, yeah, sure, you can go through,
and actually the language is simple,
especially if you know something else
that's like Java or C++,
this is a breath of fresh air, right?
But on the other hand,
I've been doing this for a long time,
all day, every day,
and I'm still learning Python every day, right?
So it's this really interesting juxtaposition
of you can learn the language really easily,
but then there's the standard library,
and then there's 300,000 PyPI packages,
like Airflow is just one of them,
and that's our whole topic today, right?
So it's kind of both, right?
- Yeah, and the language keeps growing.
So you gotta keep track of the cool new things
that are released and things that are true in Python 2.7
are definitely not true today with Python 3.10.
It's grown a lot.
- It definitely has.
And I saw that Airflow is not supporting
the older versions of Python,
basically as they get deprecated.
So yay for that, right?
- Yeah, we have actually very, very strong rules
following the Python release rules.
So we've learned from what Python learned
on the release schedule and we just follow it
very, very closely.
We like how much we have when we support,
when we stop with support.
- Yeah, that makes sense.
- Difficult to maintain compatibility
between Python two and three.
That's a lot of overhead.
- Actually, yes.
- I have nightmares about it,
cherry picking all the stuff from the main branch
to the old release branch and adding Python to support.
- But Kaxil, you cannot complain.
I mean, we both, but Kaxil did that a lot.
And thanks to that, we've been several times
top committers on Apache organization.
Like there is a like this week, most commits made.
And that was us doing cherry picks
between the three version and two seven version.
And once we made it both at the same time
top commuters on Apache.
- I'm mad at GitHub though.
GitHub does not count commits on any other branch
except main or master.
- Oh, not fair, not fair.
- We'll have to do our own visualizations.
- Yeah, exactly.
All right, before we move on out of the live stream,
Hawaii Girl says Python is awesome, like all of us.
Yes, definitely, thanks for being here.
All right, well, let's start this
at a slightly higher conversation than just Airflow.
So Airflow is one of these workflow management frameworks.
Like whoever wants to take this,
what is that, why do I need that?
When do I need that?
What are these tools as I hinted at the beginning?
- Can't save my deal.
- Yeah, so I want to walk through some of the history
though, like in 2014, 2015, where like data engineering was
not mainstream, and everyone was just using cron for scheduling
their task. And then there came Luigi, where people were using
XML and those sort of languages to write their DAGs workflows to
make sure that the task runs on schedule.
- Yeah, so DAGs directed acyclic graphs.
- Yes. - Yeah.
- Okay. - The DAGs, yeah.
Let's be very clear.
You cannot have a circle for tasks.
The dependencies cannot be that.
People have tried that and--
- It takes a long time to finish those.
- Yes. (laughs)
A long time.
Some of those DAGs are still running, so. (laughs)
- Takes a long time for them to start sometimes too.
(all laughing)
But yeah, I think to complete the history part,
people just got bored writing the XML syntax.
And it's difficult to understand.
Similar to what we were talking about Java and Python,
like Python is much easier to read, easier to understand.
There came Airflow.
Maxim, who wrote Airflow in his time at Airbnb
and open sourced it to a purchase of the foundation,
And that had a sigh of relief for people working on Luigi
and others as well, because then you could write your workflows
in an easy to understand language
that you're already very familiar with.
You don't need to write those XMLs.
And who loves writing XMLs, first of all?
And so it's easy to understand, just configuration is good.
And there was also, I think, a slight move
towards everything as code, infrastructure as code with Terraform and Ansible and whatnot.
And Airflow was just a perfect tool for workflow as code or DAGs as code.
And since I think 2016 to 2018, Airflow's popularity has skyrocketed with the advent
of like separate specialized data engineering field.
Previously, I think software engineers used to do everything.
But then people or companies also realize that it's a separate field.
It's a lot of work.
It's not you can also just not include
machine learning engineer and let him do everything.
So separate data engineers job to write
a pipeline, knows how to handle the data and everything from start to space.
We try that thousands of things, which you're first of all, you're
cron expressions or cron alone cannot handle those.
The task dependencies, the SLAs and whatnot.
So I think that's when, with the advent of data engineering,
people realizing the importance of data,
Airflow's popularity gained massively between 2018,
which also, by the way, coincided with where Airflow
became their top level project
in Apache Software Foundation.
Until then, Airflow was just an incubating project in ASF,
and then it became a top level project,
and that was a big milestone for Airflow and the community.
- I think data engineering is really interesting
because a lot of people when they think of,
well, what are the divisions of what you do with programming,
you know, especially in Python,
well, we've got like web programming,
some to some degree UI programming,
and then we've got data science,
sort of web and data science are the two,
but there's this middle ground
where I feel like people kind of don't want to go there,
or that's the data, right?
You want to make sure, you know,
if you get a bunch of data and you feed it to your model,
your model is only as good as the data you get, right?
If you're trying to automate some ingest of data
or warehousing reporting,
it's only as good as the reliability of the data coming in,
the accuracy, right?
We've got things, what is it, great expectations
and stuff like that for testing,
actually testing against the data,
not the code that works with the data.
- Yes, and let me just add,
also Airflow is really an orchestrator.
So I used to sing in a choir for many years.
And for me, this is really like this parallel
between the conductor and the team playing.
So we don't do stuff in Airflow.
Airflow doesn't do stuff.
It just tells others what to do.
And there's data processing stuff.
So we don't know how--
basically, we as data engineers--
because we are actually software engineers writing things
for data engineers.
So when you think about this cross of these both,
like software engineer and data engineer.
So we don't know how to actually make a model,
machine learning model, or we don't know machine learning.
We don't know how to,
even we don't know how to do map reduce.
I mean, if you want to process a lot of data,
but we know what to do with the data when it comes,
who should do next, what,
and how to pass it somewhere else.
And we can make it super complex to define
or complex in terms of composed
on many, many different steps and different relations,
but Airflow makes it super easy to manage the whole thing
so that it runs smoothly and you can operate it
and you can deal with any problems that arise on the go.
- So Jarek, this point, I want to expand on it real quick.
There's a very human aspect to the workflow orchestration
that I think both you, both Kaxel and Jarek have touched on,
which is that having a workflow orchestrator
really enables you to move from having like the data scientist in their silo working on this
pipeline alone to having a whole team of data scientists and data engineers working together
because you have really specialized folks who can work on building those models and that might not
be the same group of people that's figuring out how to get the data from A to B and making sure
that it's healthy and is what the model and the data scientists are expecting. So I think it just
just enables a lot more collaboration
and helps you have more specialists working together.
- Yeah, it becomes that well-known, well-tested way
to flow data down into the specialties
that people need, right?
- Exactly.
- One of the things you do in these types of frameworks
is you build these tasks, right?
Give us an idea of what some of the tasks look like.
You actually have a whole bunch of,
Would that be the integrations in there or is that something different?
Providers, that's the name that we are using in Ergo 2.
Yes, so we have like more than 70 of those right now.
We do for 70 services, we talk to external services or databases or whatnot.
70 entities, but within that we have several hundreds of these so-called operators
or sensors or transfer operators, which perform the task.
And they're actually super easy. It's just one method, execute. That's it.
- Right. - That's pretty much it.
- So, yeah, there's the three things, the sensors, the operators, the transfers.
Like an example of a sensor might be waiting to see if an object is in S3 or in Google Cloud Storage.
And a transfer is moving something from A to B.
And an operator, those are the ones we probably have the most of, right,
Yarak and Kaxel? And that, it can be anything in a service.
I don't know, like starting, running, so I work in Google Cloud,
so the operators I'm most familiar with are the Google ones.
So like spinning up a data proc cluster and then running a Spark job on it,
or running something on a Kubernetes pod.
there. Yeah, if you can dream it, either there is an operator for it, or you can write an operator
for it. Yeah. Yeah. When I started with Airflow, back in 2017, we used Airflow for the same reason,
like Airflow was designed for being a classic ETL tool, or being an enabler of sorts. So
a lot of companies are migrating from on-premises to cloud. We were doing a project with, in
in partnership with Google to move customers' data to cloud.
And we were using NiFi for data to be on GCS.
But from there, everything was orchestrated by Airflow.
So once the data lands in Google Cloud Storage,
then there's classic ETL, that extract, transform, load.
From GCS, it goes to BigQuery.
BigQuery does some manipulation.
Then the data goes to--
There's a dashboard, a data studio
that shows a rich dashboard behind it.
And this is all managed by Airflow.
And it was so easy because we separated this using task
and we were using all the hooks and operators
that Leah and Jarek were talking about,
which was like GCS to GCS operator,
move the data from the landing area to staging.
So your landing area remains untouched.
So you can verify with your vendor
that the data is as they sent even in future.
And then there were BigQuery operator to run SQL query.
And then there are other operators
for different GCS services.
So I think with Google,
there was already good amount of integrations back
34 years back, similarly for Spark and other operators.
- Yeah.
One of the things that stands out to me
that might be really useful here is if something goes wrong,
you talked about the contrast being Cron jobs
or something like that.
And if something goes wrong with that,
or you need to scale out across different machines
or whatever, and how do you get those timings right
or other weird things?
So what's the mechanism for dealing with,
you know, I'm gonna get some data,
it drops in the cloud, I'm gonna pull it over,
but then maybe it's invalid data or something.
What's that look like?
- So at least for Airflow,
all the operators that were written previously
or the idea behind them were that task,
a single operator or a single task,
be idempotent. So even if you run them multiple times, it should produce the same result.
So if a task for whatever reason fails, you could add more retries to it as a retry parameter
that the base class takes and you could say retries is four, retries is five and Airflow
will handle that for you. So if a task fails, it will rerun it for that amount of time.
It could fail because the database server is down or it could fail because it's never
going to work, right? It could be either one.
- Exactly, and you want to be notified as well.
So then we had all those on failure callback,
on success callback, those emails get sent out saying
the data didn't arrive at all
or whatever the reason may be.
- And there is even more to that
because we also have the mechanism of backfilling the data.
So even in this case, it's not like not a server failure
but your data has improved because you got a new metadata
and you want to reprocess the data
you've already processed for like last week
or only process part of the data
because it takes a lot of time
and you know that the data up to a certain point is good,
but then you have to process just part of your workflow,
a part of your DAG for the last week.
You can do that with Airflow.
So you can just tell, make a comment, run a comment,
just reprocess that data for this period of time,
starting from this task,
because this is where we know we have to reprocess the data
because the data has been cleaned up, for example.
- Right, you don't have to detect it,
you don't have to copy it down,
you've changed it locally and you want it to get fixed.
I see, okay.
- And the super cool thing there is that
this can be done by one person
who doesn't know what those tasks are doing at all.
Like they are just all the kind of language
of how the tasks are written.
The specification is written in the way
that anyone can do that.
And then this person operating can very safely
just rerun parts of it and be sure
but what comes out at the end
is just what they are expecting.
And if you have like hundreds and thousands of docs
written by tens and twenties or hundreds of people,
just one person can sit down and operate the whole of it
without understanding a single thing, how it works inside.
But with knowing, with seeing what happens,
this is like so powerful part of our flow.
- It lets you focus on just the steps
and not how they fit together, right?
So yeah, let's focus on a couple of things
on the website here that I think
are maybe worth calling out.
One of the things here is that the project
has four principles that are really nice.
Maybe you wanna highlight those for people?
- Yeah, I think, okay, so the four principles,
it's that Airflow is dynamic, extensible,
elegant, and scalable.
And I am going to go ahead and pick my favorite one right here.
And it's one that we've kind of touched upon without spelling it out clearly,
which is that Airflow is extensible.
Jarek talked about how we have these 70 plus providers,
these various integrations with all kinds of services,
from the big cloud providers to things like Slack, Snowflake,
which I know are also kind of big, to much smaller ones.
And if a provider doesn't exist,
or if an operator doesn't exist for a task
that you need to perform, you can write it,
and you can either write it and be running it
in your instance of Airflow,
or if you're being a good steward of open source,
you can write it and contribute it back to the community
so other people who need to do that task
can also benefit from what you've already figured out.
- Yeah, that's really neat.
So a lot of these would be things like down here,
like if only one person has to write,
how do I connect to Hadoop?
Or this is if you go to airflow.apache.org,
you can go to the bottom,
there's all these different,
are these the operators or what are these?
Or the tasks?
- Those are integrations.
- Integrations, right.
- Integrations with the different services you have in.
So like Google, for example, is a big provider,
but it consists of integration like Google Cloud,
PMS, data store, machine learning.
So you have a number of integrations
per provider even sometimes.
Yeah.
- Okay, cool.
And Leah, when these,
if I was gonna create one of these,
if I was gonna be a good citizen and like,
oh, I want to create one with AWS Lambda,
that exists, you know, something like that, right?
- Yeah.
- Does that get contributed back to Airflow?
So when I pip install Airflow, does that come with it?
Or is there some external way to bring in?
- Yes.
So we do actually, well, I'll have to double check
with Yarek and Caxel because I know we've been messing
around with how we do the installs lately.
So it used to be that Airflow operators were packaged
along with Airflow.
And when you did pip install Airflow,
you would get everything.
And I think that you do still get a certain number
of base operators that are kind of like provider agnostic
that come with Airflow.
But the way we have things now is that all
these provider-based operator sensors, all these provider task things are packaged separately,
and you add them just like you would any other kind of Python package.
So for example, if you want to install the Google Cloud operators, you have that separately.
And the advantage of that is that they're released on a separate release schedule and
follow versioning that ensures they're compatible with versions of Airflow, and they're very
clear about that and it's a lot easier for Airflow users to upgrade just the
providers package than it is to upgrade the entirety of Airflow which for folks
running in production that is not always feasible or practical. Yeah you can
actually click on documentation link on this page Michael and then you'll see
all of all of those providers so you see little provider packages and you
can see the documentation of that versions, the different versions.
We release them very frequently.
Like every month we have a bunch of providers released which are adding new
functionality and they are done completely separately, as Lia said,
not the same release schedule as Airflow and you can start using them
faster. And this is actually super cool that you can actually
always find something there.
But if you don't, we don't actually force you to go this community route.
Like those are all providers which are developed by community and maintained by the community of Apache Airflow
under the Apache Software Foundation rules, which is called like Apache Way.
So the way how Apache releases software.
But if you want, you can actually build your own custom provider.
You can build your own custom operators and you can release them separately.
And somebody can install that.
And we even have integration points
that if people are writing the custom providers,
they can use exactly the same feature
as the community driven ones.
And you can install them as a package,
as another Python package,
completely independent from Airflow.
And it just plugs in the UI of Airflow,
plugs into the whole framework and you can start using it.
So it's both community and custom.
- Yeah, you can go either path, right?
That's neat.
I think Leah, what you're saying about the cadence,
the release frequency,
and maybe even the degree of seriousness
with which you have to apply to these,
you might want the main airflow to be treated differently
than some edge package or integration, right?
- Yes, definitely.
- Yeah, there was a proposal for requests,
the very popular HTTP library to be integrated into Python
to replace Python's HTTP layer.
And the decision of the core devs, I believe was,
we don't wanna do that to requests.
Like it will actually make requests go much slower
and only get released once a year with changes
rather than, you know, as quickly as it needs to go.
Same thing for you all, right?
- That was one of the biggest reasons
for us to separate the providers
because when we were releasing 1.10.2, 1.10.3, 1.10.4,
it meant that all the development was happening
in the main or master branch.
And we were not releasing from master branch
because we were just releasing the minor
or patch versions right now.
And because the core has to be tested thoroughly,
even if there's a small bug in one of the providers,
let's say a Google GCS bucket operator or something,
it has to wait until the entire core
has been tested and released.
So the cycle can be large, whereas what everyone was thinking, at least the committees and
PMC members, that providers can be released more frequently, even if it means it can be
released.
If we find a bug right now, we should fix it, go with the normal ASF releasing way,
which is like three days of voting and release it.
So it is quicker release rather than waiting for the next month to club it into the core
for Airflow release.
Plus that way it's easier to also check the changes
that happens because imagine checking the change log
for 70 odd providers, including the Airflow core
in a single page, it will be a nightmare.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I don't understand.
- Yeah, I bet.
I just think of all the coordination of,
well, there's some people working on
the Discord integration and someone's working
on the Samba integration and we're gonna do a new release.
You've got to kind of feature freeze all that stuff.
So yeah, it makes a ton of sense to separate everything.
- Actually, this is super cool that,
I'm under release manager for providers so far.
So I was releasing, I don't know,
maybe six, seven releases over the last year.
And actually I do it myself in like two, three hours.
I'm able to bring all the changes
and put the release notes for all the 70 providers.
It's all fully automated and we can manage and release that
without worry that it will break something
because if one of those releases goes wrong,
providers go wrong, we can simply yank this release.
This is this fantastic feature of PyPy,
we can yank the release.
This actually happened yesterday.
We discovered that the Postgres SQL we released,
210 version, had an incompatibility bug
with previous version of Airflow.
We haven't discovered that during our testing.
We test a lot of things,
but this one slipped through.
But what we've done, just yanked this release.
Anyone can use this one.
when they install Airflow and Postgres operators,
they will install the latest version.
And in the meantime, we can just fix the Postgres SQL
and release a new version.
And that's super cool actually for maintenance release
and usability and stability of your installation.
- Yeah, that's really good that you can change that.
All right, so I wanna talk about,
first of all, let's talk about installing.
So what is, you know, how do I get Airflow onto my computer?
- It depends on if you want a hosted managed version
like Cloud Composer, which I work on,
or there is one for Amazon, MWAA,
and there's also Astronomer, which is where Caxel works.
Or if you want to do it yourself.
- Yes, yeah.
Okay.
- Yeah, in general though, we at least say
that use the constraints, constraints file.
So every time when we release an Airflow version,
we also tag in GitHub the constraints file
for each of the release.
A constraints file contains the set of known dependencies
that we have tested it, tested Airflow with on the CI
because Airflow has a lot of dependencies.
And last, before we started using constraints,
there were a lot of instances
where we just released Airflow
and then one of the dependencies released
a breaking change in a minor or a patch version,
which means users couldn't install Airflow.
And to get over it, we came up with this idea
of using constraints file because Airflow is a library
as well as an application.
So for library users who want latest versions,
whereas for application,
you want the stable versions of everything.
So we came up with this balance
of using the constraints file.
So if you check that Airflow version 2.1.2,
we get the Python version
and then we fetch that constraints file from GitHub
and use that constraint file.
Because that way we can guarantee that it is reproducible
and it will work for sure.
- Yeah, very cool.
So if I go to the documentation,
there's a couple of options.
I can run it locally, I can run it in Docker,
can run it in Astronomer.
But looking through the script to set things up here,
It looks like there's a couple of steps.
So there's a database that does something.
There's some users who execute the task
or you don't wanna run as root most likely.
I suspect that's something you all discourage.
Probably well.
And there's a web server and there's a scheduler.
So who wants, maybe tell us about that.
Whoever wants to take this.
- Yeah, so I'll take it.
So Airflow is pretty complex in setup because it has multiple components.
Depending on the setup, you can talk to a Kubernetes cluster, you can execute to a work
flow there, or you can have a Celery queue system processing your tasks and executing
them on distributed workers because the scalability part, which was one of those features of Airflow.
So you can have multiple workers, multiple machines,
and even several hundreds of them if you want.
And Airflow can be installed using all those capacity.
So we have cellular workers, we have Kubernetes worker,
we have scheduler, we have web server.
And putting it together is not as simple
as you would think.
Or actually you can think that it's complex and it is.
However, we've made like recently,
especially with a lot of effort to make the kind of
very simple way of installing Airflow.
Like, you know, like you just install it and it works.
And also if you want to scale it to like a very complex one,
you can also turn on all the knobs,
put as many components you want in a way
that fits you best.
So coming back a little bit to this installation manage,
we have a Docker image.
So that's something I also worked for quite some time
together with Caxial and the other maintainers
we iterated and perfected it.
So we have a very nice Docker image that can be used
to both run Airflow as it is,
or build your own custom image,
which contains all the new dependencies you want,
or all the special packages that you want to install,
which are needed for you.
And then from that, we have Docker Compose,
which is a kind of a quick start.
So you can just, and this is this running Airflow
in Docker this part.
- When you run in Docker, does say the web server
running on one container and the scheduler
and another or something like that.
- That's exactly what this Docker--
- And then Kripo orchestrates it, yeah, okay.
- Yes, but it's super easy, like it's really quick start.
So you just download the Docker compose file,
you just run two commands, if you go a little bit down,
then there's like few commands to run.
And then off you go, you have all these components
talking together to each other and processing the DAGs.
And you can start playing with that.
It's not production ready, the Docker one,
but then there is the next step.
So like, so you have a local installation,
you can do Docker compose, and then,
and I will transfer it to Kaxi
because he was working mostly on that.
So.
- Yep, so we also have the Helm chart that we,
the first version of Helm chart
we released in March of this year.
So that's what we recommend for production uses.
That uses the official Docker image.
So we release a lot of artifacts for Airflow.
And again, the documentation for Helmchart,
if you click on documentation, again, at the top,
and scroll all the way down,
you will see a separate documentation for Helmchart.
- Go to Helmchart, yeah, okay, got it.
- Yeah, so we have worked on all this documentation
separately because they are different artifacts
and all of them have different release cadence
and are released separately.
And HelmChat is what we recommend for users
because it comes with all the configurations
that we have tested it in production environments.
Astronomer donated the HelmChat last year
and we traded on it a lot of time before we released it.
We also, me and Jarek had a presentation
in a recently concluded Airflow Summit.
So if users are interested in it,
we can probably drop a link at the end of this session,
I guess.
Yeah, you all just had the Airflow Summit, right?
- Yeah. - Yep.
- Yeah, oh, I have a lot to say about this.
- All right, well, tell us.
- Yeah, community is definitely where the majority
of my contributions to Airflow come in.
So this was our second ever Airflow Summit.
So far it's been an annual thing,
but I'm always nervous to say annual
because I don't wanna make promises,
but it's looking good, like we'll have it again.
So we had our first summit in 2020.
We had originally planned to have it be this 500 person
in-person event, it was going to be in Mountain View.
That's how I got involved because we were looking to host it
at the Computer History Museum.
When I said, "Oh, that's really close to where I work.
I can like be your liaison to the location."
And then, you know, there was a whole pandemic
and everything, and we ended up pivoting
to a totally virtual event.
And it was a great success.
We did it in partnership with Software Guru.
they helped us run the summit last year.
And we felt that it was such a good success
that we did it again this year.
And it just finished up in July.
We had 10,000, I think more than 10,000 at this point,
registered attendees from all over the world.
- That's really good for an online conference.
- For only the second edition too, we're pretty proud.
And we had it live streamed
in a bunch of different time zones.
So sometimes it is more America's friendly,
sometimes it is more EMEA friendly,
sometimes it was more APAC friendly.
And we had all variations of talks.
We had ones that were customer use cases.
So people who are running Airflow in production
or running one of the hosted managed versions of Airflow
and what they're using it for.
We had people who are contributors
talking about their first time contribution experience
and why you shouldn't be scared to contribute to Airflow
because we're really nice, I promise we are,
or at least we try to be.
And we had more experienced contributors like Yarek and Kaxil talk about some of the more
complex things that they've been working on over the past year and everything in between.
And there are so many talks and you have the Summit page up right now. Actually,
all of the recordings and slides for those presentations that had slides available
are up there for you to watch if you go to airflowsummit.org. There's many, many, many
hours of content, I highly encourage you to watch whatever sounds interesting for you.
Yeah, I think this is great. Like I said, congratulations on having 10,000 registered.
Thank you.
Yeah, that's pretty amazing. I think there's obviously a big group of people who know that
this is like the right tool. I think there's a lot of people who necessarily don't know for sure.
Like for example, there's on the Airflow GitHub page, it's 23,000 stars. That's big time.
Yeah.
You can go in Classica, 50K. So I mean, that's a lot of people using this and interested in this and so on.
I think the best part about Airflow is the community. And that's like why we have those stars,
but also like why we had such a summit. And Caxl, you were going to say something.
Yeah, I was just going to say that if you go by the PyPy stats, we have like 3 million downloads a month or something like that, which is insane. I know a good number of those come from CI and automated processes. But hey, all the other packages also have the same thing. So you can at least compare them between packages.
Yeah, it's a relative statement, at least right.
Exactly and likely I mentioned like the biggest part about or biggest greatest thing about Airflow
is its community. If you check the new contributors I think we are more than 1600 contributors to
the Airflow project which is great and every day we at least get few new contributors trying to
contribute to the project with whatever they can and they must and I again through your medium I
I would encourage people to go to Airflow website.
If you find anything, contribute it, fix it.
If you have some ideas about hooks, operators, anything,
contribute it and we are there to help you.
Not only three of us,
there are more than 30, 40 commuters and PMC members
and there are users helping users
in the Airflow Slack channel.
We have more than 16, 17,000 members
in the Airflow Slack workspace as well.
- Wow, that's cool.
- So I actually wanna give a quick plug
for an Airflow Summit talk I gave this year
that was authored by me and a colleague.
It's called, "You Don't Have to Wait
"for Someone to Fix it for You."
And it is about the kinds of contributions
that you can make to Airflow.
'Cause there's all those things that Caxel mentioned,
but my personal opinion is that one of the best
and easiest ways to contribute to Airflow
or any open source project really
is to find something that is driving you nuts.
and to fix it, or at least to articulate really well
what's driving you nuts and what needs to change
because a really good issue can be just as good
of a contribution as a PR, 'cause you may have just
made the foundation for someone else to write a fabulous PR
with a really detailed issue.
- Yeah, and let me add to that as well,
because the community is definitely the thing
that I love most about Airflow.
The people are fantastic here.
And we are, all of us, all the committors,
we are so much into, you know,
making, like inviting people to come and to join us
or to give back for whatever they got from Airflow.
Like it's a free software, anyone can use it for free.
So giving back is just super nice.
But we don't stop talking, only talking about them.
Because if you see, scroll down a little bit above,
you would see that we also run a workshop
during the Aero Summit.
And this workshop is about contributing to Apache Airflow.
This year we had like 20 attendees coming
and learning in three hours how to make your first VR,
how to communicate, how to be present in the community,
how to make the most of it,
how to be super helpful to others as well.
And then we were just,
It was like part of it was about coping,
but all the rest was all about communication,
about speaking to people,
about being able to express yourself
and all the stuff that we just needed.
And it is--
- Who should I ask about this and things like that?
- I know exactly who you should ask.
So actually one of my favorite stories
about this year's Airflow Summit is we had a speaker,
I forget her last name, her first name is Tatiana,
and she's like a principal data engineer at the BBC,
And she went to the workshop last year.
And this year she was a speaker at the summit
and her talk about how to basically like how to debug
when crazy stuff is going wrong in Airflow was fabulous.
- Oh, super.
Okay, yeah.
And you can, that's, people can live stream
that off the sessions.
That's really cool.
Clearing Airflow obstructions.
Awesome.
- So that is an example of that workshop working.
- Yeah, yeah.
Very cool.
I feel like-- go ahead, Geksel.
Yeah, I was just saying, Airflow Summit is also
one-of-a-kind conference.
It's not like the normal conferences,
mainly because we had the local meetup groups hosting
that day of the event.
So we had the London meetup group.
We had the Bangalore meetup group, Melbourne, Warsaw
meetup group.
And we were bringing the community together.
So let's say the first day was hosted by the London meetup
group, which was me, Ash, and other folks.
We were hosting that event just for the Monday slot.
And then on the Tuesday, there were other PMC members,
other community members from Japan hosting that,
some from Melbourne hosting that.
Similarly, those were the slots.
And someday, even we had some sort of overlap
because we were trying to cover the Pacific time zone
and the Asian time zones, which was incredible
because now you have tons of content
for the Airflow users to watch out.
Also, we had two community days.
We started from Thursdays.
So we had Thursday, the talks about community,
how you can make the contributions and stuff like that.
Friday, we had that workshop.
And then from Monday to Friday,
there were more about the Airflow use cases
and why Airflow 2.0 was the big milestone for the project
and what we are planning ahead for Airflow
and the stuff like that.
- Oh yeah, there's a ton of stuff here.
I think people could watch for the rest of the year
and study this and get a lot out of it.
- It's true.
- I do think so.
- And we actually even had a networking event there
Friday night. - We did.
- And that was a blast actually.
- It was, yeah.
- The networking this year was like,
people learn how to use it online.
And that was like, well,
not maybe as good as physical conferences.
So I'm looking forward to next year,
which hopefully we're gonna be partially
at least physical event.
But it was good enough.
And I think that was really cool to talk to those people
about all the different things, not only Airflow.
So we are not only Airflow and not only Python
and not only programming, but also people.
- Yeah, I feel like this is a project
that would be easy to contribute to
in the sense that if I'm gonna say contribute
as a newcomer to Django, that's gonna be hard
because that's a highly polished single piece of software.
And if you're gonna make a change,
that affects millions of people and it's not easy.
Whereas here, if you wanna add some kind of integration
and it didn't exist before,
you're not gonna break anybody's code,
you don't wanna work with a bunch of legacy code.
There's a bunch of sort of broad but shallow places
people could jump in and participate.
- Well, and if people, if a newcomer does wanna come in
and like really jump into the deep end,
we do have this concept called AIP,
which stands for Airflow Improvement Proposal.
And it kind of sets you up to not run into a heartbreak
if you open this, what you think is an amazing PR
and we're like, oh no, no, no, hold on.
We're not ready for that.
'Cause it's almost like writing that outline
before you write your essay.
I know it sounds kind of dry,
but what it really is, is it's an opportunity
to fully flesh out this amazing idea you have
and share it with the community
and the community will give you feedback
and they will be productive about it
because if they're not,
they're not abiding by community code of conduct.
- Yeah, I find it very unfortunate.
I feel really bad if people come and do a PR
to some project that I have,
and granted, these are all very small open source projects,
but if they come and they actually do the work,
and the first I know about it is, boom, here's a PR.
- Yeah.
- That is not in the,
that's just not in the same zen
of what I'm trying to accomplish with this.
And it's gonna break the thing that makes it special.
So I have to reject it, right? But you don't want to.
It would be much better to say, "I have this idea.
If I built this, would you want it?"
Do you want the puppy? Here's a puppy for Christmas.
Yes, exactly.
This is precisely what we are teaching people at those workshops
because it's not obvious.
If you come from outside, you don't understand that.
So we're not only teaching people about contributing the code,
but also how to find yourself there,
like how to be empathetic,
how to think about, put yourself in our shoes and on the other hand, how to tell what you want to
tell in the way that we will understand it. Because it's sometimes really different worlds,
different people, different backgrounds, different expectations and assumptions. So all this is the
communication is that I think, I'm a software engineer, I love to do software engineering,
But like 30, 40, 50% of my time is communication.
It's not actually coding.
And this is cool.
Related to this, I actually want to call out a really important Apache value
that I think that Airflow embodies,
which is the concept of the importance of community over code.
And I really feel that the Airflow project lives that value.
And folks in the community really are trying to foster a positive community because they understand that if the airflow community is not healthy, then the airflow code will not live on.
It doesn't matter.
Yeah, it doesn't matter.
And if folks have questions about that, I do want to acknowledge that I am the one woman in the room.
I am often the one woman in the room
when it comes to Airflow,
and I would love to see that change
and have more gender diverse folks come join.
And so if you are someone who identifies with that
and wants to hear Leah's unfiltered views on the community,
feel free to reach out to me in the Airflow Slack.
- Yeah, that's fantastic. - Or on my Twitter, yeah.
- And like I said, I do think this is a project
that if you wanna get into open source,
it's one that has relatively low barriers,
technically speaking.
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
The keynote talk I gave in the Airflow Summit on Thursday, the first talk, so if you go
to the Airflow Summit page, the very first talk, where I talk about my journey as well,
because I was very afraid of contributing to open source because it feels intimidating
at first on like everything will be public.
Who knows if I screw something up?
What would people say?
So be on my permanent record.
Yeah.
So, and I didn't know Python or didn't know it proficiently.
So I talk about my journey of how I did it, talk about 10 minutes about that, and then
how a new user can start contributing to the project.
Because Airflow is a relatively still a larger code base.
And there are a lot of areas that people can target.
Because if you try to learn everything at once, it is going to be very difficult.
We have Helm charts, we have Docker images, we have scheduler, which is core to Airflow,
We have executors, we have the CLI, REST API,
and a lot of things like that.
So there are a lot of room for people
to get expertise in a certain area.
And then if you start including all the integrations,
then it's a whole piece, right?
You can just add your own integration
and be an expert at that and become a contributor,
committer, PMC member, just with that contributions.
- Well, and in the interest of empathy,
I would like to share that I do not know all of these parts.
I think the part I'm most familiar with is the Google provider and I have never touched
the helm chart and it scares me because I haven't taken the time to learn what it's
all about.
But the good news is that community members, other community members know and I know that
I can look to them for help when I do need to mess around with it.
That's the beauty of the project, right?
If everyone knows everything, then why are we all here?
Each one of us knows their part, then that's the community.
Otherwise it's not a community project, yeah.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- We're getting short on time.
I do wanna touch on a couple of things that I think
we haven't got a chance to touch on
that are really important.
One, yeah, let's talk about the user interface
because one of the ways you all positioned to this
is you don't wanna do this all with just cron jobs
and like sort of little scripts that are put together
and run on weird random triggers.
And one of the real big benefits is you have this really beautiful UI
for all sorts of visualization of running workflows and all kinds of stuff.
You want to tell us about that?
I'll do the simple version
because I think that Kaxel and Jarek know more about it than me,
but I'll tell you the two things I'm most excited about.
One of them is that it just got a huge makeover with Airflow 2.
So if you're an Airflow user and you haven't upgraded to Airflow 2,
If you need one reason alone, it is that the UI is so much prettier and it is much more responsive.
And as a former Cron user, I'll say that the best, easiest benefit you get from this is you can just see what's failing.
If you don't have to dig around and try to figure out what's missing, like, you know that something went wrong.
All right, Yarek and Kaxil, that's my, I'm off my soapbox now.
Yeah, basically, you have all the information you need all the historical view in front of you.
Like if you want to see which task failed historically, you could just check the preview.
And then this is the graph view where you can see how your task is proceeding.
Plus, we now have auto refresh like Leah mentioned from 2.0, which is like you don't need to press the refresh button, which was a bit annoying for the Airflow 110x version, which is very good.
Your task will continue.
You can see the progress that Airflow is continuing this task.
If you click on that task, it will show you the logs of that task.
So everything is very intuitive and easy to monitor.
- For people who are listening
and are not watching the live stream,
you can go and for example, in the graph,
it'll show you all your tasks that you would do,
like download this file or run this bash script or whatever.
And then it actually shows you how they're working together.
And then they're colored as you progress
through this DAG of tasks, right?
So you can actually visually see, was this one skipped?
Was this one successful?
Which one failed?
how far are you visually as a graph, which I think is awesome.
Yeah. And one of the interesting thing over there is to understand the dependencies,
which was very interesting when I initially started with Airflow,
that for a user or for a company to understand what all the tasks they are working on
and in a single flow, how does that dependency graph work on?
If you are depending on data from a single client, how does that go to a dashboard?
So that end to end view, like, it's an actual pipeline of sorts that you can see.
Yes, and just to add on that, so the visualization of the data flow is like super important,
because then you can, with a glance, you can see what's going on,
and you can go to any part of it and focus on that and understand what's going on.
However, I will come back to kind of the roots,
because Airflow doesn't have a way by default to define those flows visually.
You can see them visually, but they are all defined as Python code.
And this is like the beauty of it, and that was a very, very deliberate choice.
And this is the reason why we are at the Python talks today,
because Airflow is all about Python.
So this visualization that you see here are really reflection of the code
that you wrote as a writer. And it means also that the common language between people
using Airflow, different parts of it, is Python. And this is the common language that we're using.
And this makes it so powerful. And the visual part is pretty much an addition. And it's necessary,
but it's more kind of result of the Python code which is being written.
A lot of workflow systems try to go in reverse, right? They're like, here's your draggy-droppy
set of tasks and options, you drag it all together, then you press go.
Right? This lets you at the code level.
- This all breaks at the very moment when you want to have to do some custom work.
Because if you are used to the drag and dropping, you will not do coding. You will not code the
kind of customization that you want to do. You will ask someone else to do that. In Airflow,
this is quite reverse. I mean, everything is Python. Everything.
The dependencies are Python. The code itself is Python. The blocks are Python.
But you can also write your own... In the same place where you define your
DAG, you can write your own custom operator
without having to use a black box operator of sorts.
And you don't have to leave the box of working on Python
while doing that. And this is so powerful, I think. This is the
way how why it is so popular between data engineers all over the world. I think it's like one of the
most popular workflow orchestration engine in the world right now. I wouldn't, I think that's
it. I don't have hard data on that so you know like it's just a feeling but I think it's
that's the case. I mean we can have four thousand people at the summit, Jark. Yeah for sure. And while it is
is written in Python, you can use the bash operator to run like your Java code, for example,
or Scala or whatever. So while everything is in Python, you can use it to run any other
languages too.
Yeah, you've got, you've got, go ahead.
You can run Docker image, Kubernetes does, because a lot of those workflows are also
okay, we have Kubernetes. So we run everything in Kubernetes, we run them as Docker containers.
And that's the only way you can do that.
Airflow can do that as well.
No problem whatsoever.
There is Kubernetes pod operator.
You can spin off a new Kubernetes pod to run your tasks,
but you can also have a Python code,
which is very easy to like put together and play with
and run locally without all the overhead
of building the Docker images
and making them available to run you as a task.
It's so much more extensible and powerful in this way.
- Yeah, that's a very good point.
There's a lot of escape hatches
to bring in other technologies.
That's cool.
Let me give people just a super quick sense
of what it's like to write code for this, this Python code.
So you would say with dag, with directed acyclic graph,
and you give it some details,
and then you create these various tasks,
like a task might be a bash operator or something like that,
or like you said, a Kubernetes pod or whatever,
and then you just run them.
One thing I did want to ask you all about,
Like what is this T1 double arrows
into list of T2, T3 for the task?
- Good question.
So you have those tasks mapped to variables
called T1, T2, and T3.
And this is how that visualization is defined
using those like the bit shift operators in Python.
So this one would say that T2 and T3 run after T1.
- Interesting.
- And they run in parallel.
- And there are different ways of setting dependency.
you scroll down or just search for setting up dependencies on the right side of your
on the right. Yeah, setting up dependencies. Yeah, there you go. There are different ways
you can set those dependencies between tasks you could do.
I got you.
Or even like right shift, you can left shift, you can double bit shift as a transitive type
thing and set upstream.
Okay.
And the beauty of that, again, is that you can, this is all Python code. So those are
custom operators, the left shift and right shift, they are just custom Python operators
overridden.
Right. And you can override them in the task, right? Just like pathlib overrides forward
slash to mean like combined parts of the path, right?
We wouldn't probably recommend that if you don't know Airflow that much. But the better
thing there is that you can actually programmatically build the tasks and build the relationships.
So this is not something that is predefined in one file in the declarative way, like it
is an XML file or JSON.
So this is a Python code.
So you can pretty much dynamically build the DAG.
So very complex, like if you saw like, you know,
the DAGs which were like thousands, thousands of notes
built with like 200 lines of code,
because you could build those tasks.
You know which relationships you want to build.
- It's very hard to have a conditional in a JSON file
or an XML file. - Exactly.
That's the thing.
Or loop, actually loop in JSON file is like no.
I mean, there is no way to do that.
- I mean, we do have XSLT.
You can go crazy with them all.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Please no.
- And also from Airflow 2.0 and onwards,
this is an explicit way of setting dependencies,
but from Airflow 2.0 and onwards,
there's also an implicit way of having dependencies,
which is like, if you say that your bash operator
takes an input from another task,
then Airflow sets dependencies between them implicitly
because you are depending on an output of another task.
So it knows.
- Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
Cool, all right.
So I think just two really quick things
before we wrap it up,
'cause we are short on time here.
One is, we talked about the web UI
for the stuff we're looking at,
but there's also, you all describe,
a rich command line utility to perform complex surgeries
on bags.
Okay, why would you perform a surgery
on one of these things?
And what is this all about?
Who wants to take that one?
- I don't know that I've done surgery with the CLI,
but I have used the CLI to give me information
about my environment to figure out
when things are misbehaving.
- Yeah, okay.
Cool.
It's like for diagnosis and stuff like that.
Yeah.
Like, cause we have this one command list DAGs and it also shows you how
long the DAGs are taking to load.
So you can kind of see if one of them is your problem DAG, if it's taking
way longer to load than the rest, that usually means that I've made a mistake.
Yeah.
That command also gives you the passing time and everything like that.
So it can tell you that it took five seconds to pass your DAG file, which
means something is wrong in your DAG file.
you are probably importing a lot of things
or doing some database calls on the top of your file,
not inside the objects.
So you can find those sort of issues.
Also, you could use the Airflow backfill CLI command
to run all the backfilling of data
if you've got the data today
and if you want to run it for last one year or so.
- Yeah, but also it's what is not mentioned in the document.
There is this, well, it is mentioned in the documentation.
we have also a very, very powerful and rich
and very well written API.
So we have a stable Azure Airflow 2,
that was one of the improvements implemented.
So if you go to Apache Airflow, yeah,
and scroll down on the left, yes, not this one.
- All the way down here.
- The, even below, there was like stable REST API.
- Yeah, there you go. - Oh, yeah, yeah, gotcha.
Okay. - Yeah.
So this API is like written in open API standards,
which means that all the tools which you can imagine
for like managing access, for trying out things,
for testing the API calls,
all the beautiful documentation that you see here
with examples, this is all automatically generated
from our API.
And this is super cool because you can actually,
and this is surprising.
You said that the UI is fantastic and yeah, it is.
But there are some companies who have their own UI,
their own ways of looking at the processing pipelines.
And many, many, we've learned during the Airflow Summit,
many of those companies, they actually build their own UI.
They don't use Airflow UI at all.
They just use the engine.
- Maybe you want to integrate it
into some larger thing they already have or something.
- Exactly, exactly.
And this API makes it possible.
So you can just query which DAX you have,
which are the relationships, how this all works,
which is successful, which not.
And then you can build beautiful UI
or even ugly UI if you want.
but the UI that is something that you're used to
without looking even at the Airflow UI.
And this is also a super powerful part of Airflow.
- Yeah, and this is straight up REST API.
So while Python is awesome,
if you're not a Python person,
but you still wanna adopt this,
like here's a way to integrate with it, right?
- Absolutely. - Absolutely.
- And we have already started creating clients
in different languages.
like we have a Java client for Airflow
built on this API spec.
And users could use that
and users can create their own APIs for specific language
because it, under the hood uses open API
so you can auto generate clients for different languages.
- Yeah, fantastic.
All right, I think that is about time for us.
I did wanna point out that Astronomer and AWS,
But Astronomer, where you work, Hexel, is a sponsor.
So if you wanna run sort of Airflow as a service,
that's kind of your job, right?
- 100%.
And also we, Astronomer has their own registry.
So if you do open registry.astronomer.io,
it makes it very easy to search for built-in providers
that are baked inside Airflow,
or if users create and maintain their own providers,
it is very easy to search that as well.
I just posted the link if you want to check out.
- Yeah.
- And just one comment on that,
because we also have Google Cloud Composer.
So we have Astronomer, AWS, and Cloud Composer.
These are like big embrace of Airflow as a service.
And for us, it's like, you can choose either.
You run it on your own, you run it using Astronomer,
which have like great expertise in everything,
because we have lots of people from Astronomer,
our commuters, then there are Amazon people,
then there are Google or Amazon offering
and Google offering, and you are free to choose
whatever you want, like how you want to run Airflow.
- And you can move probably if you decide you need to move.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, that means you have the infrastructure.
The DAGs will be the same no matter where you take them.
You'll might have to do a few changes
when it comes to like off and making sure
your keys are up to date, but that's it.
- Cool.
Let's wrap this up with a little bit of future looking.
Just whoever has the right visibility in our group here.
Just where are things going in the future?
People are excited about Airflow.
Like what can they look forward to?
- Oh, there's a really good talk from the Airflow Summit
that's called "Looking Ahead Beyond Airflow 2.0."
It is with Ash from Astronomer and Ajamal from Google.
And I think the thing that Ash said over and over again is,
Well, there is no roadmap, but we do always have things going on.
[LAUGHTER]
No promises.
No promises, but there are lots of that.
So yeah, we pretty much know the direction we are heading to.
So we want Airflow to be the orchestrator
you want to use for whatever workflows you want to run.
That's it.
And there are lots of things to happen in order to get there,
because we are so specialized on one hand
on what we are opening up, but we are on the road
to really make it easy to accommodate more use cases,
make it easier to run, make it faster,
make it serve those cases which currently cannot be served
because of some reasons, historical reasons mainly.
And this is definitely some direction we are heading
to open up to even more cases
without losing the single focus.
Like we want to be great at scheduling tasks
orchestration. That's it. We don't want to do processing. We don't want to go into this
direction. That doesn't make sense for us. We want others to do processing and we will
do orchestration the best way it's possible.
And the two immediate things that we are already working on and we are almost close to merging
it on the main branches, making the Airflows schedule more powerful. That is, the users
will have more power than just like expressing it in cron users will also be able to say
run it on the third of the third trading day of the month or something like that, like
that level of powerful timetable we want to provide to the users we call it timetables
we have we will have cron timetable will have time delta timetable of sorts we are figuring
is that but we'll have that plus something called deferred operators. Leah mentioned
about the sensors which are currently we poke for the API call and see until it succeeds.
We are going to have a new component called trigger that will use Python's async library
to use resources in a more optimized manner.
- Instead of polling, you just await for it to happen and then boom, off it goes. Yeah.
- That sounds cool.
- Yeah. - Fantastic.
- Just one comment to the scheduling
because those great examples of one of the cases
we want to serve, there is a real astronomer,
not the company, real astronomer using Airflow.
And he wanted to start DAX when there is a sunset
and sunrise and you know, when you are astronomer
and planning around Earth, that's a little bit complex.
So the whole scheduling is gonna be there
to implement this astronomer request, basically.
- Yeah, fantastic.
It sounds really useful.
All right, well, I think that's it for covering Airflow,
but let's quickly wrap up with,
I guess just one of the questions
since we're a little bit over time
that I usually ask at the end.
So I'll ask you about your editor.
Jarek, if you're gonna work on Airflow and other stuff,
but what editor do you use for Python?
- Well, on a daily basis, I use IntelliJ Ultimate.
That's my favorite editor.
However, very, very frequently, my favorite editor is VI.
I mean, I'm old type guy and VI is always
when I have to do something quick.
Somewhere where I don't have the editor started,
VI is there and I have it in my fingers.
I know how to quit VI, it's easy.
I can learn you, I can teach you.
- Fantastic, yeah, I love that joke about random strings.
Kaxel?
- For me it's PyCharm, I love PyCharm.
It's debugging, it's going to the source code
and those intelligent help it gives away.
Just a big fan of PyCharm.
- Right on, Leah?
- I use a combination of VS Code
and I also have SoftSpot for Vim.
- Okay, very cool.
- So Vim is gonna be fast, VS Code if it's not.
- Yeah, we're gonna be here for a while,
let's get down to it.
- Yeah.
- Right on, well, thank you all for being here.
It's been really great.
Final call to action, people wanna get started
either using Airflow or contributing to Airflow.
What do you tell them?
- Oh, I tell them to go to the community page
on the Airflow website and I tell them to sign up
for the dev list and to join the Airflow Slack.
- Yep. - Fantastic.
All right, well, thanks again.
Thanks for being here. - Thank you.
- Thank you for inviting us, it was a great time.
- Yeah, yeah, it was great. - Thank you.
bye Kirby.
- Yep.